# FIO
Feedback Intervention Ontology

## Current Ontology Terms and Definitions
The [DICTIONARY](DICTIONARY.md) represents all terms and definition in the Feedback Intervention Ontology that are not the result of imports from other ontologies.

## Contributing to Term Development
All contributions to terms in the ontology should be documented in a separate issue. Examples of types of contributions are:
1. Requesting a change to a current term.
1. Proposing a new term.
1. Requesting removal of a current term.

### Requesting a Change or Removal
1. Create a new issue for the change with a descriptive title.
1. Assign the label 'term' to the issue, along with any other labels necessary.
1. Provide a clear description regarding the change that should be addressed.
1. Provide a reference for the change.
1. If the change request requires action from someone specific assign the issue to that person.
1. Create the issue.

### Proposing a New Term
1. Check the current dictionary to see if the term already exists.
1. Create a new issue for the new term with a descriptive title, i.e., 'New Term Need: domain problem'
1. Assign the label 'term' to the issue, along with any other labels necessary.
1. Collect required information for a new term in the body of the issue.
    * Term name
    * Definition
    * Comment (rdfs:comment)
    * Reference
1. Create the issue for the new term.

### From Issues to Ontology
The ground truth file for the ontology is `src/ontology/fio-edit.owl`. The [DICTIONARY](DICTIONARY.md) is generated by running `tools/make-dict.sh` after changes are made to the `src/ontology/fio-edit.owl` file. One an issue is ready to be implemented, `src/ontology/fio-edit.owl` must be edited and `tools/make-dict.sh` must be re-run to ensure that changes are available publicly.

1. Create a new branch with a descriptive name.
1. If needed, select or generate a new unique IRI (FIO_00000088)
1. Insert term into `src/ontology/fio-edit.owl`
1. Make Pull Request against master branch
    * Include comment indicating which issue(s) are closed by the PR. e.g. "Closes #15"

### Accepting/Merging New Term
FIO is BFO compliant and conforms to the guidelines provided by the OBO Foundry.

[http://obofoundry.org/principles/fp-000-summary.html](http://obofoundry.org/principles/fp-000-summary.html)

## Development
### Getting Started
1. Clone this repository
2. Download & install Protege
3. Install wget
    * OSX: `brew install wget`
    * Debian/Ubuntu: `sudo apt-get install wget`
3. `cd` to project directory
4. Run tools/download-catalog.sh
5. Open Protege
6. Open FIO ontology
    1. Use File>Open... menu item
    2. Open owl file `src/ontology/fio-edit.owl` in project directory

### Release & Publish Ontology Version
1. Tag commit with semantic version string e.g. "v0.2.0"
1. Build .owl (rdf-xml) and .obo artifacts.
1. Update OBO Foundry
